
	3/2022 - See CHANGES file

	- Rant: the design of Motif is very impressive, in how they
		were able to design it to be object orientated in a non-OO language - C.

		However, over all the design had lots of things that sucked. 

		For one it tried to be all things to all people. The really bad part of 
		it was that I think from what I knew way back when it was design by committee, with 
		people on it with very different goals. The national goals were different;
		the Europeans especially were way to bureaucratic and got stuff included
		that I truly thought was one of the main reasons that it died. And it was
		overly top heavy with too much multi language stuff.. had to be all things
		to all languages. This made it bloated. 

		Another was it was designed by too many acedemics - arrogant, all knowing, 
		and they never were real life pragmatists or practical.

		And the heaviest Sin was that they refused until it was effectivly dead, to 
		release the source. That made it die.
			
		IDIOTS!! and such a loss and waste for so many people.
	
	- End of Rant

	12/21/17

	recapturing my youth, I am seeing if I can get this obsolete software to run as 
	before. In the process pick back up some lost skills.

	1) the Xm gzip archive I got I from sourceforge.net
	
	2) the other Xaw and Xmu gzip archives I got from x.org

	3) I used the Xaw and Xmu libs installed already on v16 of Ubuntu
		- I used the header files from the downloaded archives to
		  include in the lxb software.
		- I did not compile and install the downloaded libs, used 
		  what was already installed.
		- I had to make some links to the current libs in the lib
		  system directory. Were not linked already.

	4) I compiled and installed the downloaded Motif. 
	   The header files for Motif where installed and used from the system
	   directories.

	5) I had to edit the Makefile to find the needed include files,
           as they were in funny new named directories. 
	   I had to 
	   copy the header files for some libs onto a personal include 
	   directory from the archives as not preloaded in Ubunto v16.
	

